README.md, before:

# New Typesetting System (2001 Java reimplementation of TeX 82)

This is GitHub copy of the source code of the 
[New Typesetting System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Typesetting_System) 
    which is a Java reimplementation
    of Knuth's original version of TeX.

This code was completed in 2001 and can actually compile TeX 82 files to DVI!
However, for various reasons it was decided not to continue the project (i.e., support more modern flavors of TeX),
	and there has been no further development on this code since.

This mirror exists to:

1. Have a nice way to browse the source code of NTS, especially for those who are thinking of
	developing [new implementations of TeX](https://github.com/jamespfennell/texide).

2. Ensure that the code can still be compiled in modern versions of Java so this artifact
	will live on.

## Compiling and running NTS

Disclaimer: these instructions were written by someone who never created a Java project from scratch before,
so they may be basic and non-standard.

The code was written for Java 2 (aka 1.2) originally.
It has been successfully compiled with Java 16, and so should theoretically work for all
intermediate versions too.

Assuming that you have Java installed:

- **Compile**: From the repo root, run `javac -classpath src src/Nts.java`.
The compiled artifact is `src/Nts.class`.

- **Run**: Invoke `java -classpath src src/Nts.class`.

### Installing Java

- **MacOS**:
    Install OpenJDK using brew (`brew install java`) and then perform the sym-linking
     command as described in `brew info java`.

### Running the tests

Running the tests is really easy. Because there are no tests, to run the tests you just do nothing.

## License and changelog

NTS has a custom license.
It has extremely strange and burdensome clauses around modification.

The code as hosted here has small modifications versus the original that are fully detailed in the changelog.
Specifically,
- The internal layout of the repository has been changed.
- Fixed some deprecation warning issued by recent Java compilers.

Commit message:

Run the Google formatter on the Java files

README.md, after:

# New Typesetting System (TeX)

This is GitHub copy of the source code of the 
[New Typesetting System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Typesetting_System) 
    which is a Java reimplementation
    of Knuth's original version of TeX.

This code was completed in 2001 and can actually compile TeX 82 files to DVI!
However, for various reasons it was decided not to continue the project (i.e., support more modern flavors of TeX),
	and there has been no further development on this code since.

This copy exists to:

1. Have a nice way to browse the source code of NTS, especially for those who are thinking of
	developing [new implementations of TeX](https://github.com/jamespfennell/texide).

2. Ensure that the code can still be compiled in modern versions of Java so this artifact
	will live on.

## Compiling and running NTS

Disclaimer: these instructions were written by someone who never created a Java project from scratch before,
so they may be basic and non-standard.

The code was written for Java 2 (aka 1.2) originally.
It has been successfully compiled with Java 16, and so should theoretically work for all
intermediate versions too.

Assuming that you have Java installed:

- **Compile**: From the repo root, run `javac -classpath src src/Nts.java`.
The compiled artifact is `src/Nts.class`.

- **Run**: Invoke `java -classpath src src/Nts.class`.

### Installing Java

- **MacOS**:
    Install OpenJDK using brew (`brew install java`) and then perform the sym-linking
     command as described in `brew info java`.

### Running the tests

Running the tests is really easy. Because there are no tests, to run the tests you just do nothing.

## License and changelog

NTS has a custom license.
It has extremely strange and burdensome clauses around modification.

The code as hosted here has small modifications versus the original that are fully detailed in the changelog.
Specifically,
- The internal layout of the repository has been changed.
- Some deprecation warnings issued by recent Java compilers have been resolved by tweaks to the Java code.
- The code was formatted using the Google Java formatter.
